README.md, before:

ImageClassificationWithSymbolicHints
==============================

This repository contains the code for our paper "Image Classification With Symbolic Hints" (*INSERT HYPERLINK*). Here we use a budget-friendly fusion scheme for classifiers which is derived in `Derivation.pdf`.

If you use any of our code, please cite *INSERT CITATION*.

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/565897879.svg)](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10055587)

## How to run this project:
- `git clone https://github.com/MikkelGodsk/ImageClassificationWithSymbolicHints.git`
- Fill in `conf/data/data.yml` with URLs to dataset files and the directory to store the dataset in.
- Fill in `DS_DIR` in the makefile to be the folder in which you will store both ImageNet and CMPlaces.
- `make data`
- `make priors`
- `make run_cmplaces` or `make run_imagenet`

## Software used:
Software:
- Miniconda 22.11.1
- Python 3.9.11
- cuda 11.3
- cudnn v8.2.0.53-prod-cuda-11.3
- numpy 1.22.3-python-3.9.11-openblas-0.3.19

## Hardware used
The code was run on the main cluster of DTU. Here we used
- NVIDIA-A100 gpus (1 is enough, we used multiple for hyperparameter tuning in parallel). 
- 6 cores of whichever CPU was available, and 64GB ram (mainly for the SVMs).
- 600GB of storage space for the datasets and models.

## Third party files
We use 
- `reliability_diagrams.py` from https://github.com/hollance/reliability-diagrams, and 
- `mapping.json` from https://github.com/DominikFilipiak/imagenet-to-wikidata-mapping (see https://www.tib-op.org/ojs/index.php/bis/article/view/65 for licence)

which are found in `src/third_party_files`.

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>

Commit message:

Included a link to the paper and a bibtex citation

README.md, after:

ImageClassificationWithSymbolicHints
==============================

This repository contains the code for our paper "Image Classification With Symbolic Hints" (https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0301360). Here we use a budget-friendly fusion scheme for classifiers which is derived in `Derivation.pdf`.

If you use any of our code, please use this citation:
```
@article{10.1371/journal.pone.0301360,
    doi = {10.1371/journal.pone.0301360},
    author = {Jørgensen, Mikkel Godsk AND Tětková, Lenka AND Hansen, Lars Kai},
    journal = {PLOS ONE},
    publisher = {Public Library of Science},
    title = {Image classification with symbolic hints using limited resources},
    year = {2024},
    month = {05},
    volume = {19},
    url = {https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0301360},
    pages = {1-13},
    abstract = {Typical machine learning classification benchmark problems often ignore the full input data structures present in real-world classification problems. Here we aim to represent additional information as “hints” for classification. We show that under a specific realistic conditional independence assumption, the hint information can be included by late fusion. In two experiments involving image classification with hints taking the form of text metadata, we demonstrate the feasibility and performance of the fusion scheme. We fuse the output of pre-trained image classifiers with the output of pre-trained text models. We show that calibration of the pre-trained models is crucial for the performance of the fused model. We compare the performance of the fusion scheme with a mid-level fusion scheme based on support vector machines and find that these two methods tend to perform quite similarly, albeit the late fusion scheme has only negligible computational costs.},
    number = {5},
}
```

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/565897879.svg)](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10055587)

## How to run this project:
- `git clone https://github.com/MikkelGodsk/ImageClassificationWithSymbolicHints.git`
- Fill in `conf/data/data.yml` with URLs to dataset files and the directory to store the dataset in.
- Fill in `DS_DIR` in the makefile to be the folder in which you will store both ImageNet and CMPlaces.
- `make data`
- `make priors`
- `make run_cmplaces` or `make run_imagenet`

## Software used:
Software:
- Miniconda 22.11.1
- Python 3.9.11
- cuda 11.3
- cudnn v8.2.0.53-prod-cuda-11.3
- numpy 1.22.3-python-3.9.11-openblas-0.3.19

## Hardware used
The code was run on the main cluster of DTU. Here we used
- NVIDIA-A100 gpus (1 is enough, we used multiple for hyperparameter tuning in parallel). 
- 6 cores of whichever CPU was available, and 64GB ram (mainly for the SVMs).
- 600GB of storage space for the datasets and models.

## Third party files
We use 
- `reliability_diagrams.py` from https://github.com/hollance/reliability-diagrams, and 
- `mapping.json` from https://github.com/DominikFilipiak/imagenet-to-wikidata-mapping (see https://www.tib-op.org/ojs/index.php/bis/article/view/65 for licence)

which are found in `src/third_party_files`.

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>
